Cox’s Bazar is a popular destination for tourists who come to Bangladesh. Its diverse attractions, such as street vendors, large markets and noteworthy sights, see an influx of thousands of visitors each year. But there is one jewel amongst the attractions of Cox’s Bazar, namely Moheshkhali Island. It is an island that is known for its beauty and tranquility, and many eager rickshaw operators patiently await the arrival of visitors, to offer them a unique tour of the island.Moheshkhali Island covers an area of approximately two hundred and sixty-eight square kilometers, and is blanketed in breathtaking mangrove jungles, spectacular ranges of hills and striking landscapes, with some hills standing at just over three hundred meters. It is these rare natural qualities that lure visitors to the island. The island has been the subject of great debates between conservationists and government officials, in regard to protecting Moheshkhali against deforestation and harm to the wildlife and vegetation.

Some of the main attractions on Moheshkhali are the picturesque and peaceful beaches. The Shrine of Adinath, which is dedicated to Shiva, the quaint Buddhist temple and the pagoda are also stunning attractions to visit on the island. The recent completion of the Shaheed Ziaur Rahman Bir Uttam Bridge has connected the island to the mainland, but traveling to Moheshkhali by boat is recommended, as it is terrific way to catch precious memories on film and add another adventure to your exploration of Bangladesh. The two lane bridge has made life much easier for the islanders, allowing them to travel and move goods. They are known for the production of salt, battle leaf and shrimp. The bridge is three hundred and forty-seven meters in length and just over seven meters wide.

Moheshkhali has a unique and harmonious atmosphere. Visitors will enjoy the simplicity of the island lifestyle and are guaranteed to meet very colorful characters along the way. How and where to start discovering the magic of Moheshkhali is up to you, but the island will provide an unforgettable journey through one of the most beautiful destinations in Bangladesh. 